[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
And we are broadcasting
live from the Conscious Life
Expo in Los Angeles.
So, in today's rapidly
changing business climate,
those who are most
creative, and innovative,
and open to new ideas are
usually the most successful.
Whether you work for
yourself, or you're
a part of a small business,
or even a large corporation,
do you feel that changes
are really needed?
Well, my guest today, author
and business consultant,
John Murphy, wrote a
book called Zentrepeneur.
And he believes today's
business leaders have a lot
to learn from the
ancient art of Zen.
Which, I agree, personally.
But not always easy to do
in a corporate environment.
>>JOHN MURPHY: No, it's not.
It's very difficult
sometimes because
of the pressure,
of the intensity.
But that's where presence
is so powerful and valuable.
I liken it to
sports, in some ways.
Like I was a
quarterback growing up.
And when we walk up to
the line of scrimmage,
we've called a play,
it's part of a game plan,
it's part of a strategy.
We've practiced it over,
and over, and over.
And the truth is when
that ball is snapped,
you really don't know
what's going to happen.
>>LISA: Right, all
those plans need
to be in the back of your mind
and ready to come about, right?
>>MURPHY: That's right.
You need to be present,
you need to be poised,
you need to be relaxed, you
need to relax into the moment
and let flow, as
I like to put it.
Because if you don't, I mean,
the whole team senses fear.
If you're afraid--
so in business,
of course, if the leader
is afraid, and many are,
many are terrified,
the team senses it.
And with things like the law
of attraction, if we're afraid,
we attract more to be afraid of.
>>LISA: Yes.
I've always wondered about
the mindset of a quarterback.
And it's going to tie
into this conversation.
I know nothing about football,
but you are really the chief
out there, aren't you?
You're really
controlling the entire--
so whatever you are feeling,
the rest of the team
is going to feel and
your opponent, right?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, you're
a conduit, really.
I mean the whole team matters.
The whole team is critical.
And you have to harmonize
like an orchestra.
I mean everybody's got
to play their part.
Timing is essential.
So you have to be in step,
so to speak, with time.
Same thing in
business, you know.
If we get out of step,
if we get out of sync,
the left hand doesn't know
what the right hand's doing.
And we end up with a
dysfunctional organization.
>>LISA: So why didn't you
continue in your career
as a quarterback?
[LAUGHTER]
>>MURPHY: I just--
>>LISA: Not your thing?
>>MURPHY: I reached
my limit, I think,
in that particular space.
It wasn't my calling.
In fact, I had many challenges
growing up that tested me.
In fact, in high school, I ran
my foot through a lawnmower
when I was 17 and was told
I would never play again.
I was told I'd never walk
again without limping
by an internationally
renowned, award
winning, patented--
many patents, in fact--
orthopedic surgeon.
>>LISA: And this is in the
heighth of your career?
>>MURPHY: This was just after
we won the state championship
in 1976.
And I was coming in as a senior.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MURPHY: This is my passion.
>>MURPHY: And I was nominated
captain for the team.
It was a big deal.
I had high hopes.
Also this is one of
my first businesses.
I'm an entrepreneur.
I had started a business.
We had about 40 or
50 customers where
we cut lawns and landscaped.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MURPHY: And we had 13
lawns to cut that day.
And this was the second one.
A customer had
asked me to cut down
some real tall grass
in the backyard, which
wasn't a normal
part of the deal,
because she was going
to throw a lawn party
and she wanted a
little more space.
I had this old
lawnmower and foolishly
tripped over a rock backing up.
Which they say you should
never do that with a lawnmower.
Don't ever back up.
Anyway, seven days
in the hospital
and 10 hours of
reconstruction surgeries.
A couple surgeries later,
I was told give it up.
Football.
Give it up, you're done.
And I'm in the
hospital and I get
a book sent to me
from my grandfather
and it's a book on courage.
And one of the stories in
this book is on Rocky Bleier.
Rocky Bleier was a Notre
Dame grad football player.
Too small, too slow
to make it in the NFL,
so many people thought.
But managed to get drafted
by the Pittsburgh Steelers
kind of last round.
Before he ever played, he
was drafted off to Vietnam.
Well, in Vietnam, he had severe
injuries, hamstring, gunfire,
and shrapnel.
He basically blew
off part of his foot.
And was told the same thing.
You'll never play
football again.
Go sell cars or something else.
He rehabbed for three years, got
faster than he ever was before,
made the Pittsburgh
Steelers again,
ended up the starting tailback,
and had four Super Bowls
as the starting tailback.
So I'm sitting there reading
this book in the hospital,
thinking, maybe
I'm not done yet.
You know?
>>LISA: But, you had to be
strong mentally in order
to even take that
story on and even
to get up off that hospital bed.
Even to go back.
>>MURPHY: Oh yeah.
>>LISA: And where did that
mental strength start from?
Where'd you learn that?
>>MURPHY: It's in the heart.
It's not in the mind.
It's not in the head.
Now a lot of people think the
mind is all about the head.
The heart's much more powerful.
And there's some
research that says
it's at least a 10 to 1
ratio in terms of power.
Emotional intelligence,
so to speak.
And something stirred
me up in that moment
and I just made a decision.
I'm not done yet.
And two years later I was
playing at Notre Dame.
But I was playing behind
a guy named Joe Montana.
[LAUGHTER]
So you asked why I didn't
make it any further.
>>LISA: He stole your thunder.
>>MURPHY: Do you really
want me to answer that?
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: No, I like your
answer much better.
>>MURPHY: But, you
know, I still play
a different form of
football today, if you will.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: I mean I travel
every week, I teach, I present,
I do everything I can to make
a difference in the world.
>>LISA: And you're the
quarterback for many companies.
>>MURPHY: Mmhmm, I am.
>>LISA: Now what do you do
when you go into a company?
And what is the
title that you're
called is a corporate culture
consultant, is that right?
>>MURPHY: I'm committed
100% of my time
right now to a major
US corporation.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: They're global.
They're all over the world.
There's 62,000 people and
over $10 billion in sales.
It's a very big company.
I'm still an independent
consultant with my own company.
It's turning 26 this year.
But they have named
me a Vice President
of Business Transformation.
That's the term.
Business transformation.
So they're looking for
transformational culture
change.
A whole shift in energy and
in organizational habit,
which is just another
term for culture.
You know, people individually
know how difficult
it is to break habits.
You set a New Year's resolution
and two weeks later, you're
struggling to keep it, right?
>>LISA: Forgot
completely about it.
>>MURPHY: Well, imagine
that with 60,000 people.
Organizational habits,
culture change, is powerful.
>>LISA: They run deep.
>>MURPHY: Yeah.
And, you know, I use
the term culture's
the way we do
things around here.
It's a simple way
to understand it:
just the way we do
things around here.
And when you start to look
at the way we do things
around here, you start to
realize it's full of waste,
it's full of inefficiency.
We lose sight of the
clients and the customers.
We get stressed,
we get frustrated,
we ended up spending
half our day,
if not more than that,
on wasteful things.
Yeah.
And then we try to change,
we try to express ideas,
we try to get good
changes made, and we
keep running into the system.
You know?
>>LISA: Well, let's
talk about, for example,
this company that
you work with and you
don't need to disclose
the name, but what
are some of the
inherent challenges that
come from large corporations?
Now this conversation
is also for anyone.
You could be an
employee, you could
be the customer of
this type of business,
what are some of their
challenges with companies
that are that big?
>>MURPHY: Well, number
one, this company's stock
is at record highs.
Their earnings are
at record highs.
It's one of the few
AAA rated companies
left in the United States.
So it's got every
reason to not change.
It's like why should we change?
>>LISA: So it's OK, yeah.
>>MURPHY: So complacency is a
problem for a lot of companies.
You go into protectionism,
you go into defense.
And you let go of what got you
started in the first place.
>>LISA: Innovation, creativity.
>>MURPHY: Absolutely.
So this company is saying, we
need to go back to our roots.
And we need to innovate.
And we need to simplify
some of the things
that we have going on.
We've become very complicated.
I love a quote from Einstein.
Einstein once said,
"Any intelligent fool
can make things bigger
and more complex.
It takes a touch of genius
and a lot of courage
to move in the
opposite direction."
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MURPHY: That's become
this company's new mantra.
We need to move toward
simplification and innovation,
not just complication and
incremental improvement.
>>LISA: So you explained to me
once something called the war
room, where you go in and
you create this environment.
Tell me what this is like.
This is kind of what I mean
by quarterbacking a company.
>>MURPHY: Sure.
Well, in fact, we've done
several of these events
now for this client.
I've been doing these
events for many, many years.
It's a form of awakening.
What we do is we
assemble a team.
We train the team
in about three days.
And then for the next
30 days, the team
collects what we call
the brutal facts.
We go out and talk to
clients and customers,
we map out a key
process that represents
the way we do
things around here,
we bring in people from
different parts of the business
to all share their perspective,
and we get the data.
And then we bring the leadership
team in and we walk the wall.
And we have some rules
that are kind of funny.
>>LISA: Is it a
serious environment
when you're doing this?
>>MURPHY: Oh, yeah, yeah.
And so we bring in
the leadership team.
Number one, we don't
give them any chairs.
So you don't come
in and sit down
around a big conference room.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: And we don't
use any PowerPoints.
We don't use any video
equipment or visual equipment
at all other than what's
up on the walls, which
is flip charts, and post-its,
and graphs, and charts.
And then we say, you cannot
interrupt for 20 minutes.
You give us 20 minutes
without interruption
while we tell you our story
about how we do business.
It's sort of like
Undercover Boss where
you're going into
in your own business
and you're shocked
by what you see.
You're like I can't
believe we take
that long to do that, I
can't believe we actually
have our associates
or our employees
struggling the
way they struggle.
All that kind of thing.
So in 20 minutes
we tell our story
and then we open it up
for questions and answers.
And a lot of times you
can hear a pin drop.
So we brought the CEO
of this $10 plus billion
company and his top 10,
well, 11 direct reports.
So there were 12 of
them who came in.
And now just to put it in
perspective, the old way,
the old culture was
one person would
go in front of the executive
committee with PowerPoints.
>>LISA: As the consultant?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, it
could be a consultant
or a couple of consultants.
Or one of the more senior
managers in the company saying,
this is what we want to do.
They wouldn't get past,
like, the third slide,
and the questions would
come in, and the debates,
and the arguments,
and this and that.
So then they'd often--
>>LISA: And the defense?
>>MURPHY: Sure.
And then they'd table
it for next month.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>MURPHY: And then next month.
So I just finished
an event this week
with this client where
we got more change done
in four and a half days than
they said in the last seven
years.
They've been trying to fix
this process for seven years.
>>LISA: What's the
biggest breakdowns
that companies have-- large
and small companies-- is it
with employees?
Is it with structure?
Is it with the
inability to change?
>>MURPHY: Ego.
>>LISA: Ego?
Explain.
>>MURPHY: Well, it's
the ego thought system.
And so number one, when we get
into start talking about ego,
everybody thinks that they've
got their own personal ego.
You know, his ego's
big, her ego's big.
The ego when you really
start to examine it,
it's a thought system.
Ego thinks the
same way no matter
who has it, who holds it.
So it's more of an
attachment we have.
So when we attach to
the ego thought system,
we live in fear.
The ego is afraid.
It's insecure.
>>LISA: In survival.
>>MURPHY: Yeah, it's defensive.
It's comparative.
It's always comparing.
When we attach to it,
we're comparing ourselves
to everybody else.
>>LISA: Competitive.
>>MURPHY: It's competitive in a
dualistic us, them kind of way.
There's nothing wrong with
being competitive when
we're competing
against our own self.
Our own limitations,
our own standards,
trying to be a better person.
>>LISA: Yeah,
personal best, yeah.
>>MURPHY: But when we start
competing in such a way
that in order for me to
win, you have to lose.
Or if somebody has to lose
in that very dualistic way,
it's a very draining energy.
So cooperation's a much
more powerful energy
than competition.
And so it's what I bring
into businesses and teach,
is once we start getting
people all on one page, aligned
and playing like an
orchestra, it's awesome.
But as long as we're
pivoting against one another
and playing politics and
trying to position ourselves
for the next win-- and you see
it vividly in our government.
>>LISA: Yeah.
That's a good example.
>>MURPHY: It's a
lose-lose proposition.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: We all
suffer from that.
>>LISA: That's a great
example, actually.
Government's based on
corporation, right?
So back in the founding days.
So we look at America
as-- what would you
say are the biggest
faults of America?
If you're looking at
it as a corporation.
>>MURPHY: In a word, ego.
Because it's more about how
do I get elected next term,
you know?
Not what's best for
this country right now.
We're in extraordinary debt.
We're over a trillion
dollars in debt.
>>LISA: And the
debt ceiling keeps
getting raised and raised.
>>MURPHY: In fact, yeah.
In fact, I don't remember
exactly the date,
but if you Google, when's the
last time the United States was
actually not in debt,
it was in the 1800s
and it was only for a
short period of time.
And then we went
back into debt again.
>>LISA: Sounds created.
Yeah.
I mean--
>>MURPHY: And then
you got the government
trying to tell people
they shouldn't be in debt.
>>LISA: Right.
I was just thinking
that very thing.
>>MURPHY: Really?
>>LISA: Mmhmm.
>>MURPHY: You know?
>>LISA: So how do we get
into this place though?
This place of overspending,
this place of getting into debt?
I mean, of course, we model
it through our US-- companies
have these challenges.
And that's where
corruption begins.
We saw so much of that
with the corporate fallout.
And so how do you-- do
you see that coming?
Can you see it a mile away?
Can you see scandals happening?
>>MURPHY: Well, yeah.
And, you know,
it's the ego again,
because the ego is
never satisfied.
And so as soon as the-- if
we're attached to that thought
system, and we get a degree,
the ego's basically saying,
you need another one.
You buy a nice house,
you need a bigger one.
You get a promotion, it's not
enough, you need another one.
So the ego's never satisfied.
So as long as we're attached
to that thought system,
we're not living in peace.
We're constantly seeking more
attachments, if you will.
And then what happens is when
we become attached to something,
and this is the Zen piece of
it, attachment and aversions
tear us up because, as
soon as we become attached
to something, we fear losing it.
Consciously or
subconsciously, we
fear losing things
we've attached to.
Whether they're people,
they're assets, they're jobs,
they're titles,
they're whatever.
And so we actually go
through life afraid.
And when we live in fear, our
immune system breaks down.
This is where a lot of illness
and disease comes from.
And you can actually see this.
I'm going to speak
about it tonight.
You put human cells in a Petri
dish, and you add toxins,
and they run for the corners.
You add nutrients and they
come right after the nutrients.
You can't go in both
directions at the same time.
So when you're
stressed and you're
in a defense mode, reminds
me of football too,
the most points are
scored in the last two
minutes of the game
when you're in--
>>LISA: Tired.
>>MURPHY: --prevent defense.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>MURPHY: Yeah.
But you become vulnerable.
And we become vulnerable.
So yet, we've got to find
ways to get past that ego
way of thinking and be free.
>>LISA: OK, so let's
talk about some
of the qualities of
the ancient art of Zen
and how you can infuse those
into a corporation that
has no previous context of
consciousness or spirituality.
>>MURPHY: Well, the
first thing we have to do
is pay attention to the now.
OK.
And that's part of Zen, is being
present and being in the now.
>>LISA: OK so--
>>MURPHY: And what's interesting
is the conscious mind
spends very little
time in the now.
The conscious mind is always
looking forward or past.
Which is where
stress and fear is
when the conscious
mind's looking forward.
Uh, oh, something
to be afraid of.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: I've got
this event coming up
or something's going to happen.
And when the conscious mind
is looking in the past,
that's where we find
guilt, regret, shame.
OK, these are very
disempowering energies.
So in the business world,
we have to get present.
And how do we do that?
We start with taking score.
Taking measure.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: What's
going on right now.
You'd be surprised
how many people
don't know what's going
on in their own space.
In their own area.
>>LISA: Now what
about goal setting?
And for projections and
those types of things?
How do you stay present while
you're still doing that?
>>MURPHY: What's interesting
is that a lot of goals
are ridiculous when
you look at them
from a different perspective,
because it's like,
hey, we got to get
10%, we got to get 5%.
And, you know, I
was with a client
just recently where they
were taking 44 weeks
to do a couple of days of work.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MURPHY: And I see
that quite frequently.
So--
>>LISA: Oh my god.
>>MURPHY: Yeah, yeah.
You know, if you take
weeks to do something that
should be done in
hours and you're
trying to get a 10% improvement,
you're not even close.
So that's what I say is the
difference between improvement
and innovation.
A lot of people confuse the two.
Improvement, yeah, we've
got a 10% improvement,
but if we were
really innovative,
we would have eliminated
it altogether.
Look what Jeff Bezos
is doing at Amazon.
You know, Amazon's a big vendor,
a big distributor of mine.
And the process, the way it
works is they email an order,
you've got 48 hours to confirm
it and seven days to fill it.
Everything's timed and
sequenced like an orchestra.
And they respond very
quickly and very carefully
to their customers.
And there's only two pieces
of paper in the whole system.
When you confirm,
you download a label
that goes on the
package and a pick
sheet that goes
inside the package.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: So here's what's
in the box or in the carton
and here's a label.
And there's a barcode on it.
So when they receive it, they
scan the barcode and that wires
money to you 60 days later.
There's no invoicing,
there's no back-- that's it.
It's very lean, it's very--
>>LISA: Clean.
Mmhmm.
>>MURPHY: Very clean.
Now Amazon's going, two
pieces of paper's too much.
[LAUGHTER]
But how do we, you
know, so think about it
another way at Amazon.
What put them in business
in the first place?
Selling books, right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: Selling books.
So now they're eliminating
the book as we know it.
Why do we even ship printed
books back and forth
all over the country?
>>LISA: Just digitize it.
>>MURPHY: Why don't we
just beam it to you?
Yeah.
Why don't we do that?
So the innovations they've made
with the Kindle, for example,
go far beyond trying
to improve a printing
process, or a shipping process.
So if we're not careful, look
at Blockbuster these days.
>>LISA: Exactly.
Then what happens--
>>MURPHY: Where is it?
>>LISA: What happens to
the Barnes and Noble's?
What happens to the bookstores?
>>MURPHY: Borders
Books, where are they?
>>LISA: Yeah, the
brick and mortar.
It seems to be there's always
such opposites in these type
of corporations and
major corporations.
And I'm sure it exists
in all corporations
where the company's
doing really well,
but the employees are
overworked and underpaid.
There are top executives making
a lot of money and layoffs
on the other end.
How do you bridge the gap so
that you don't create animosity
within the people
that are working
to make the company work?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, well,
when I work with people,
and I work with
people at all levels,
I mean from CEOs right
down to the front line,
and I teach them how to
get out of their own way.
It doesn't matter
what level they're at.
We're all in our own way,
more than when we know.
The subconscious mind, which
is a million times more
powerful than the
conscious mind, dominates.
It runs over 95% of our day.
And if it's
subconscious, that means
it's beneath our consciousness.
We don't even know
what it's thinking.
But it's our auto pilot.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: It's our habitual mind
as Wayne Dyer likes to call it.
And, you know the research that
Dr. Bruce Lipton's done on this
is awesome.
And so if the conscious
mind can process
40 bits of data per second
and the subconscious 40
million bits of data
per second, it's
no wonder will power, which
is the conscious mind,
struggles to actually
sustain change.
You know, we try to will
our way to do certain things
and the subconscious
mind takes over and says,
you're never going to do that.
>>LISA: It's not
going to-- mmhmm.
>>MURPHY: So the real mastery
is in deleting the subconscious
memes, or programs, or viruses
of the mind, if you want.
>>LISA: How do you delete those?
>>MURPHY: Well, there's
some great techniques.
I'm going to teach
a couple tonight.
There's emotional freedom
technique, meridian tapping,
there's the quick
coherence technique,
which is a meditative technique.
And as we clear these
constraints, these blockages
in our being, and we get
into flow, true flow,
we astonish ourselves.
So going back to your
question about people
in any organization,
CEOs are afraid.
Senior executives are afraid.
Now some of us might say,
what are you afraid of?
>>LISA: Of what, yeah.
>>MURPHY: You have all
the money in the world.
They could fire you and
you could live on a beach
the rest of your life.
What are you afraid of?
Trust me, they're afraid.
And they'll tell you that.
And what keeps them up at night?
They've got lists of things.
So whether we're at
a very senior level
or we're at the ground
level, the real mastery
is in getting out
of our own way.
And, I mean, I love what
people like Scott Adams
has done with Dilbert.
You know, for years he was
working at Pacific Bell
and he created this
cartoon, right?
>>LISA: Mmhmm.
>>MURPHY: And--
>>LISA: For fun?
>>MURPHY: For fun.
And even after he was
making far more money
and could easily have left
to just be a syndicated
cartoonist, he didn't leave.
He stayed there.
Part of it was for--
>>LISA: Editorial purposes?
>>MURPHY: --fodder
for the comic.
You know, it's
brilliant in the way
he displays what's going on in
a lot of corporate cultures.
But any one of us
can do amazing things
when we shift from complaining
and feeling like a victim, what
I refer to as victim
consciousness.
Because, again,
once we understand
the law of attraction, if
we really understand it,
we'd never complain again.
>>LISA: So are you saying
that the employees should
stop at complaining and
shift to a law of attraction
consciousness?
>>MURPHY: Absolutely.
Anyone who understands, really,
what the law of attraction's
all about would
never complain again.
They'd let go of--
>>LISA: So they haven't gotten
a raise in 15 years and--
>>MURPHY: And they never will
as long as they dwell on that.
>>LISA: And keep saying that?
>>MURPHY: Whatever we
dwell on, we manifest.
So if we dwell on
pain and suffering,
we're drawing more pain and
suffering into our lives.
That is the law of attraction.
Like it or not.
>>LISA: So just start dwelling
on raise, raise, raise.
>>MURPHY: Start dwelling on
what makes you feel good.
And when we get into
that feel good mode--
I'm grateful for
the air I breathe.
I'm grateful for my children.
I'm grateful for the
fact that they've
got something warm to wear and
they've got a school to go to
and that we are not starving.
And things like that.
When we get into that
consciousness of gratitude,
of appreciation, of
joy, and you don't
have to be a millionaire
to feel good.
In fact, that can
get in the way.
How many millionaires do
you know who don't feel good
and they complain?
>>LISA: There's many,
many stories about that.
That, yeah, where it winds
up being more stressful
and the problems
are just bigger.
So what do you do as a
daily practice for you?
You travel 51 out of 52
weeks out of the year.
>>MURPHY: Yeah, last year.
>>LISA: How do you maintain
your Zen-like habits?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, well, I
get the question a lot
because I'm on
airplanes every week.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: And I'm around
lots and lots of people.
And there would be some
folks that would think, oh,
you know, you're
destined to get sick,
you're destined to just
get burned out or whatever.
And I don't.
I start my morning with
20 minutes of meditation.
I use usually a Taoist
meditation that I really like.
I'm going to teach it tonight.
And so, you know,
many years ago,
what was the first thing
I'd do in the morning is
I'd turn on the news.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>MURPHY: And all
of a sudden, I'm
getting into a frequency, an
energy of frustration, anxiety,
stress, despair,
I mean, whatever.
I don't do that anymore.
I wake up now and I get into
a very deep and very grateful
breathing and meditation.
And I use certain healing
sounds to start my day off
on a really positive note.
And then I do what I love
to do, which is to teach.
Some days I write.
>>LISA: Now is that meditation,
the Taoist meditation,
something that you
could take us through?
Is it a longer meditation or?
>>MURPHY: Well, I'll give
you a couple of them.
Because what the
meditation does is it
focuses on your
five vital organs
as the Taoists
traditionally teach.
And the Tao, by the
way, is for those
who aren't familiar
with it, it's T-A-O.
And Tao is of the Tao
Te Ching, and it's
all about the great current.
The great flow of life.
So to think about the Tao,
it's like a blade of grass
doesn't have to try to grow.
>>LISA: It just grows.
>>MURPHY: It just grows.
Why?
Because it's its essence.
An oak tree doesn't have
to try to be an oak tree
and grow strong and tall.
It just does because
it's supposed to.
So when we understand
the Tao and we apply it
in our own lives,
we're not supposed
to work hard to be successful.
>>LISA: We're not?
>>MURPHY: No.
>>LISA: Contrary
to popular belief.
>>MURPHY: I know.
Well, that's a paradigm.
>>LISA: That's how
we were raised.
>>MURPHY: And I
thought that for years.
Is if you want to be successful,
you have to work hard,
and you have to do
all these things.
>>LISA: Because your
parents did and they
were raised in the Depression.
And yes.
>>MURPHY: And as long as
we believe that, then that
will have to be true for us.
But what if we believe
something different?
What if we believed we
can grow, and prosper,
and do amazing things
without working hard?
But by working smart.
OK?
By getting out of our own way.
By letting go.
Because it's paradoxical.
Most of us think that to be
successful, you don't let go.
That's like surrendering.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: You've got to
fight for what you want.
>>LISA: Now you're
talking about flow.
>>MURPHY: You've got to cling.
You win something, you
gotta hang on tight to that.
You've got to fight.
No, you don't.
[LAUGHTER]
But those are all
powerful paradigms.
Those are all powerful
beliefs that people have.
And I had them.
So when I start the day, I
start with my vital organs.
And they are the kidneys, the
liver, the heart, the spleen,
and the lungs.
And each one of them resonates
at a certain frequency.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: So by
making a mantra, which
is a word for instrument of the
mind, a sound, that vibrates
at that frequency,
you're actually
cleansing yourself and
harmonizing yourself
with that energy field.
So, for the heart, for example,
the heart mantra is simply ahh.
It's like stick your tongue
out and say, ahh to the doctor.
It's just, ahh..
And if you do that, you'll
actually feel it in your heart.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>MURPHY: It's like oh, wow.
And in the Taoist tradition,
you do that six times.
You take a very deep breath,
you focus on your heart,
and you focus on your
heart chakra opening up.
And then you focus
on all of the things
that the heart represents.
Which is long term memory,
wisdom, passion, charisma, joy,
gratitude, appreciation,
forgiveness.
And you focus on the heart
energy and you let out the ahh.
>>LISA: Not just love.
Actually, didn't
even mention it.
>>MURPHY: Yeah,
well, indeed, love.
But you let--
>>LISA: It's so much more.
>>MURPHY: You let that out.
And you do that six times.
And you're in a
great state of peace.
All right?
And then you can
do the same thing
with the other vital organs.
So the lungs which is a--
[HISSING]
It's like power washing
your lungs, the sound.
And it's-- it's just
incredibly cleansing.
>>LISA: So you're setting
each one of these organs
back to a place of
neutrality for the day.
>>MURPHY: Yeah and
it's a great way
to meditate when you struggle
being present and in the now.
A lot of people
struggle meditating
because the mind,
the conscious mind,
keeps wanting to leap into
the past or the future.
>>LISA: Yeah and
there's a lot to do.
I mean as--
>>MURPHY: For sure.
And there's data that show that
the average person doesn't stay
present for more
than 11 seconds.
[LAUGHTER]
So even when you're
sitting and trying
to meditate, focus on your
breathing, or your position,
or whatever, pretty
soon that mind is going,
you know, you've got
stuff to do, man.
You've got to get busy.
Or we're thinking
about something
that bothers us from
yesterday or last week.
And all of a sudden, that poise,
that presence, that quarterback
walking up the line of
scrimmage is freaking out.
We're freaking out.
And now with the
law of attraction,
we're drawing more tension,
more stress into our lives
without even being aware
that we're doing it.
>>LISA: And that
sets up the culture
of the entire organization
you're going into.
>>MURPHY: And we find
what we're looking for.
So if we're looking for
things to be stressed about,
they're everywhere.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Well, I mean you traveling
and your flight delays
and everything, do you
just roll with all of that?
You just handle all that?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, just
a couple weeks ago
I had a flight from Grand
Rapids, Michigan to Newark.
It's a 90 minutes flight direct.
I had a direct flight.
It took me 30 hours.
[LAUGHTER]
So I got lots of practice.
>>LISA: Definitely could've
driven there faster.
>>MURPHY: I could have flown
to Australia and back, I think.
>>LISA: So let's talk about
some of the techniques
that you use when you
go into the environment.
Something a technique
that you call kaizen.
What is kaizen?
>>MURPHY: Kaizen
is a Japanese word.
It's actually two core words
made into one in Japan.
Kai, K-A-I, Which means to
take apart and make new.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: And Zen, which--
Zen means think good.
You know, think positive.
>>LISA: Does it?
>>MURPHY: Be positive.
Be optimistic.
Be present and joyful.
And balanced, well being.
So kaizen is to take
apart and make better.
Make good.
Make good change.
So in loose terms, it
means make good change.
So we run kaizen events.
In fact, I just ran one this
week in Los Angeles area.
Where in an event, we
pull a team together.
And we've identified a
process that needs change.
We need to take this from
12 weeks down to 12 hours,
and we need to strip out all
the waste and inefficiency
and unnecessary variation.
So in a kaizen event,
we get done more
in three or four or
five days than companies
take a year, two years, in
some cases seven years to do.
>>LISA: So you just
really focus in on that?
Do you teach them to do in your
absence, and when you move on,
do the companies ever revert
back to those old habits?
Or do you stay on with them?
Or do they really learn how
to do the change themselves?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, well, we
use a model that requires us
at the last step of the
model is to design it
into the organization structure
and policy and procedure,
and that's governance.
But I always say governance
is not that necessary
when people really, truly
believe and experience
that it's better.
So think about this,
if you make a change
where it's truly better--
>>LISA: You don't go back?
>>MURPHY: I don't want to
go back to floppy disks.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>MURPHY: You know?
I don't want to go back to--
[LAUGHTER]
--some of the things that
were just a nuisance years ago
because we've made them better.
We've created new
habits now around them.
I don't want to go back.
So yeah, it's a
great question, Lisa,
because the sustainability
is a key piece.
If we don't--
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: --if we don't
lock it in so to speak.
>>LISA: Then it
doesn't really, yeah.
Then you haven't done your
job unless it does last.
And you also taught me
to ask why five times.
And explain why that is.
Why?
Why ask why five times?
>>MURPHY: Well, it's
another technique
that came out of
Toyota, actually.
It's called the five whys.
And I think I give a couple
of examples in the book,
but the five whys get
us to a true root cause.
And the problem we
see in business,
we see it in health
care, we see it all over
is that we really don't
get to root cause.
We don't really get
to true knowledge.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: We suffer by solving
problems at the symptom level.
So for example, you know,
someone's got a headache.
OK?
Well, take an aspirin.
There.
But that doesn't really
solve the problem, especially
if the headache comes back
the next day and the next day
and the next day.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MURPHY: We had no knowledge.
We just think we do.
So why do you have a headache?
That's one level of why.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: Your
circulation is off.
Oh, so the bloodflow
to your brain is off.
Why is that, second level,
why is that happening?
There's inflammation
in your neck.
Oh, well, why do you have
inflammation in your neck?
Because you're
favoring one side.
Why are you favoring one side?
Your hips are misaligned
and you don't even know it.
So, oh.
Now-- and we call this
systems thinking in business.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MURPHY: It's cause and
effect isn't as obvious
as it may appear.
So if you go to the doctor and
you say, "I have a headache,"
and the doctor's--
it's your hips.
And you're like huh?
>>LISA: Right, you
have to get there.
>>MURPHY: No, it begins with an
H, but I said head, not hips.
And they're like, yeah,
but let me explain.
>>LISA: It's a root cause.
>>MURPHY: So systems
thinking is where we really
get to true knowledge and
we really solve problems
at a more sustainable level.
And if we don't use
systems knowledge,
we end up with what we
often call side effects.
Right?
The world's full
of side effects.
We fix one problem and we
end up with three more.
>>LISA: Creating
others, yes, yes.
>>MURPHY: Because we're not
thinking more holistically.
>>LISA: The root
cause of something.
Yeah.
>>MURPHY: That's right.
So the five why's is a brilliant
tool to really drill down to--
>>LISA: The functional reasons.
>>MURPHY: --what's
really going on.
By the way, if you apply the
five whys to your own personal
struggles in life, you almost
always get to ignorance.
You almost always--
>>LISA: Hmm.
It goes back to the ego, huh?
>>MURPHY: Yeah, but the
fourth level, you get to fear.
And if you wonder
why you're afraid,
it's because you
don't know any better.
There's nothing to fear.
>>LISA: And that's-- I
was going to ask you.
>>MURPHY: Fear is an illusion.
>>LISA: What would the
solution for that be?
>>MURPHY: Well, you
have to figure out
how to get past the
ignorance that you have.
This is where faith comes
in many times, you know?
>>LISA: What do you
mean by ignorance?
Explain that.
>>MURPHY: It's just
that we don't know.
And we don't know
what we don't know.
>>LISA: But there's
nothing wrong with that.
>>MURPHY: No, no, but ignorance
drives a lot of illusions.
It drives assumptions.
>>LISA: Oh, I see.
>>MURPHY: So when we're in
the absence of knowledge
and true intelligence and
true knowing, what do we do?
We assume.
Do you think we get it right?
A lot of times we don't.
So I make assumptions about
my relationships or somebody
I'm in a relationship with.
I make assumptions
about my boss.
I make assumptions about
myself, by the way.
So I assume I can't do that.
I'm not smart enough.
Or I assume I can't--
>>LISA: Just like the accident
you have with the lawnmower.
If you were to assume that
the doctors were correct,
you wouldn't have gotten
to the next level.
>>MURPHY: That's exactly right.
So one of things I always do
in business and otherwise is
I'll ask people, is that
an assumption or a fact?
Do you really know?
Because that's an
awakening kind of question.
It's like, well,
what do you mean?
I go, do you know with absolute
certainty that that's true?
That's a fact?
Because data can
be very misleading.
If we walk out to the beach
and you look at the horizon,
you could swear
the earth's flat.
People thought
that for centuries.
>>LISA: How do you
know it's true?
Back to the Byron Katie work.
>>MURPHY: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yeah.
>>MURPHY: You could swear
that the Earth is not moving.
I don't feel anything moving.
You'd never imagine that,
yeah, well, actually we're
going through space at
about 68,000 miles an hour
and spinning at 1,100.
And we're not flat.
Try that on.
>>LISA: I can feel that
every now and then.
>>MURPHY: But see, it takes
a different perspective
to be aware of that.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: Because the
facts suggest no, it's flat
and it's not moving.
>>LISA: So you could
look at something
as you see as factual
in the company,
but it could actually
be an illusion.
>>MURPHY: That's exactly right.
And you mentioned Byron Katie.
Byron has said over and over.
She said, there's very
little we know of anything
with certainty.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: We're
assuming all the time.
So that's ignorance.
And the Buddhists
said the ignorance
is the worst of the three
kleshas, of the deadly sins,
is ignorance.
Jesus said, forgive them,
they know not what they do.
They were all speaking
about ignorance.
So once we realize, you know
what, I don't know everything.
I might think I do.
Some people act like they do.
We don't know much of
anything, actually.
>>LISA: You are definitely
a business sage.
[LAUGHTER]
And more than that.
I mean your rules about
life and your philosophies
apply to everything,
not just business.
So you can take this
conversation home
and you can bring it
into your families,
into your personal life,
and you can bring it into
your work environment.
Even as an employee,
nonprofit, everything,
it would definitely work.
>>MURPHY: Oh, yeah.
It's made a world of
difference in my life.
And I'll tell you
one quick story too.
I was going through a tough,
very tough time in my life,
just four years ago.
And I had the opportunity
to go visit the Dalai
Lama on my 50th birthday.
So I did.
>>LISA: What?
Wow.
Of course.
>>MURPHY: The topic
that he was speaking on
was the wisdom of emptiness
in the heart sutra.
And this is kind of
timely and interesting
because, at that time,
I had essentially
had so many of my
own attachments
just disappear in front of me.
>>LISA: Such as?
>>MURPHY: My wife of 26 years.
You know?
My family as I knew it.
My home.
OK?
I had to let it all go.
And the wisdom of
emptiness really
means that if we go through
life with a very full bowl,
we can take on no more.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MURPHY: We're overwhelmed.
And we have to let
go to let flow.
We got to make space.
Make room.
And I always use a simple,
silly, little metaphor
sometimes.
But I see this in business,
I see it in personal lives
all the time, is what I call
the closet space syndrome,
where we just never seem to
have enough closet space, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MURPHY: Well, have
you considered the fact
that you've got
22 pairs of shoes
or you've got all
these things in there?
Do you really need all that?
And we do the same
thing with time.
We never seem to
have enough time
to spend with certain people,
or exercise, or whatever.
And that's an illusion, too.
There's plenty of time.
We all have the same
amount of time in a day.
And there's plenty of space.
And so, again, when
we see past the ego
which thinks in terms of
scarcity, never enough.
So you have to fight
for what you get.
Beyond scarcity is the
consciousness of abundance.
There's plenty for everybody.
>>LISA: Can I ask you a little
bit about that time question?
>>MURPHY: Mmhmm.
>>LISA: Time management.
About filling with there's
so many different demands
and things that you say yes to.
How do you back that off and
allow that time to happen?
That enough time for
everything to happen?
>>MURPHY: You have to be willing
to say no and set priorities.
>>LISA: That's where it starts.
>>MURPHY: So it's not
so much time management.
That's what people call it.
It's priority management.
It's a big difference.
So when our priorities
are straight
and we're very clear on
what's in and out of scope,
there's plenty of time.
But you have to be
willing to say no.
>>LISA: Yes.
Which goes to that being
willing to not have to be liked
and be a people
pleaser to everyone.
>>MURPHY: Yup, it's true.
That's right because when
you try to please all,
you end up pleasing very little.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Especially yourself.
>>MURPHY: And you
burn yourself out.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: Yeah,
and that's, again,
that's part of the Zen
practice of balance.
Of rhythm, of harmony,
of what in Japan
we call heijunka, which is
peaceful order, it's grace.
And life should appear graceful.
When you watch a great
athlete, you know,
you watch the Olympics now--
>>LISA: Yes, yes, yes.
>>MURPHY: --they're graceful.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MURPHY: They
make it look easy.
>>LISA: They're in the zone.
They do.
Yeah.
>>MURPHY: It's not easy.
>>LISA: Those that are usually--
>>MURPHY: But they
sure make it look easy.
>>LISA: They do.
It's amazing.
They go beyond and their
bodies, I don't even
know how they could
physically do what they do,
these athletes.
And they're amazing.
>>MURPHY: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MURPHY: Well, they let
go and they let flow.
>>LISA: That's good.
>>MURPHY: And they get
aligned with source energy.
They get aligned with spirit.
They get out of their own way.
And it's just an
orchestra in action.
It's beautiful.
>>LISA: I like that.
That's the title of your next
book, Let Go and Let Flow.
>>MURPHY: That's
actually from a tool
I developed called
the ring of peace.
And it's in my
book Beyond Doubt:
Four Steps to Inner Peace.
And those four steps are let
be, let go, let see, let flow.
>>LISA: Well, I love it.
Thank you so much.
And I hope that people can
get as much from your book,
because it seems you going into
an organization would solve
a lot, but the book is
going to need to have to do.
Because you could only be
in so many places at once.
>>MURPHY: Well, that's true.
And I've tried to be in
more places than at once
by sharing what I can.
>>LISA: Great.
Through the book and lectures.
And this.
>>MURPHY: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: All right,
well, thank you so much.
>>MURPHY: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: And I hope that
you enjoyed my interview
with John Murphy.
And if you would like
to watch a replay,
you could to go to Gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]